doc: SUIT documentation on updating Nordic Bundles (#17417)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/working_with_nrf/nrf54h/ug_nrf54h20_suit_nordic_bundles.rst

.. _ug_nrf54h20_suit_nordic_bundles:

> SUIT Nordic Semiconductor Bundles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nRF54h20 SOC binaries
```

Author: I do not really like this title, this article focuses more on the update process, it doesn't describe in depth how the bundles work.. I've changed my original title to "Upgrade of Nordic Semiconductor firmware components with SUIT" - is that OK?

#################################

> Apart from the OEM application, the devices also contain the Nordic Semiconductor provided components of the firmware, which are used to provide basic functionalities and Security Features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apart from the manufacturer application, the devices also contain the Nordic Semiconductor provided components of the firmware, which are used to provide basic functionalities and security features.
```

Author: Fixed

> These components are provided in the form of the so called SDSC Bundles, which can be found in https://files.nordicsemi.com/ui/repos/tree/General/SDSC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These components are provided in the form of the so called "nRF54h20 SOC binaries", which can be found in https://files.nordicsemi.com/ui/repos/tree/General/SDSC
```

Author: Fixed

Updating the Nordic Semiconductor firmware components
*****************************************************

Updating the Nordic Semiconductor firmware components can be done in two ways.
Both require using the nordic_top.suit envelope, which can be found inside the SDSC bundle .zip file.
These two methods are:

> * Updating it separately from the OEM application, by providing the nordic_top.suit envelope to the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updating it separately from the manufacturer application, by providing the nordic_top.suit envelope to the device.
```

Author: Fixed

> * Updating it along with the OEM application, by attaching the nordic_top.suit envelope to the OEM root manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updating it along with the manufacturer application, by attaching the nordic_top.suit envelope to the manufacturer root manifest.
```

> Attaching the nordic_top.suit envelope to the OEM root manifest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attaching the nordic_top.suit envelope to the manufacturer root manifest
```

Author: Fixed

===============================================================

When building an application, the build system can be configured to include the Nordic components inside the SUIT root envelope used for updates.

To do this:

1. Unpack the Nordic bundle .zip file to a directory of your choice.
   One of the extracted files will be the nordic_top.suit envelope.

2. Build the application, pointing to the directory containing the nordic_top.suit envelope.
   This is done by setting the `SUIT_ENVELOPE_NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY` sysbuild configuration option.
   For example:

   ``west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --  -DSB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY="\"<NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY>\""``

   Replace `<NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY>` with the path to the directory containing the extracted nordic_top.suit file.

> 3. Use the ``build/DFU/root.suit`` file generated by the build system to update both the OEM application and the Nordic Semiconductor firmware components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Use the ``build/DFU/root.suit`` file generated by the build system to update both the manufacturer application and the Nordic Semiconductor firmware components.
```

Author: Fixed

> .. _ug_nrf54h20_suit_nordic_bundles:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. _ug_nrf54h20_suit_soc_binaries:
```

Reviewer 2: Just trying to keep the approved product name (nRF54H20 SoC binaries) as consistent as possible across documents

Upgrade of Nordic Semiconductor firmware components with SUIT
#############################################################

> Apart from the manufacturer application, the devices also contain the Nordic Semiconductor provided components of the firmware, which are used to provide basic functionalities and security features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The nRF54H20 SoC also includes precompiled firmware components provided by Nordic Semiconductor, which provide basic functionality and security features.
```

> These components are provided in the form of the so called "nRF54h20 SOC binaries", which can be found in https://files.nordicsemi.com/ui/repos/tree/General/SDSC

Reviewer 2: Can you add a link to the new ABI compatibility page? It indicates the compatibility between NCS versions and soc binaries versions

Author: I think this is already done

> These components are provided in the form of the so called "nRF54h20 SOC binaries", which can be found in https://files.nordicsemi.com/ui/repos/tree/General/SDSC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These components are provided as *nRF54h20 SOC binaries*, which can be found in https://files.nordicsemi.com/ui/repos/tree/General/SDSC
```

> Updating the Nordic Semiconductor firmware components
> *****************************************************

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Updating the nRF54h20 SOC binaries
**********************************
```

> Updating the Nordic Semiconductor firmware components can be done in two ways.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can update the nRF54h20 SOC binaries in two ways.
```

Both require using the nordic_top.suit envelope, which can be found inside the Nordic bundle .zip file.
These two methods are:

* Updating it separately from the manufacturer application
* Updating it along with the manufacturer application, by attaching the nordic_top.suit envelope to the manufacturer root manifest

Updating the Nordic components separately from the manufacturer application
===========================================================================

> Updating the Nordic components separately from the manufacturer application is done by performing two separate updates.

Reviewer 3: To my understanding this sentence is not correct - updating Nordic components is done through a single update, but the update of the whole device (incl. manufacturer application) is done in two steps.

Author: After reading that the sentence indeed might sound confusing. Modified that.

The drawbacks are:

* Two separate updates are required, which is not supported by all protocols.
* The manufacturer envelope has no possibility to ensure the compatibility of the Nordic components with the manufacturer application.

Attaching the nordic_top.suit envelope to the manufacturer root manifest
========================================================================

When building an application, the build system can be configured to include the Nordic components inside the SUIT root envelope used for updates.

To do this:

1. Unpack the Nordic bundle .zip file to a directory of your choice.
   One of the extracted files will be the nordic_top.suit envelope.

2. Build the application, pointing to the directory containing the nordic_top.suit envelope.
   This is done by setting the `SUIT_ENVELOPE_NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY` sysbuild configuration option.
   For example:

   ``west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --  -DSB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY="\"<NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY>\""``

   Replace `<NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY>` with the path to the directory containing the extracted nordic_top.suit file.

> 3. Use the ``build/DFU/root.suit`` file generated by the build system to update both the manufacturer application and the Nordic Semiconductor firmware components.

Reviewer 3: Please either add advantages/drawbacks here too or make a separate section that compares those two methods.

Author: Ok, at first I wanted to avoid duplication, but I didn't have an idea how to do a "comparison" in a nice way, so I simply copied the pros/cons, switched them, and reworded them in the second section

.. _ug_nrf54h20_suit_soc_binaries:

> Upgrade of Nordic Semiconductor firmware components with SUIT

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upgrade the nRF54h20 SOC binaries with SUIT
```

#############################################################

The nRF54H20 SoC includes the *nRF54h20 SOC binaries*, precompiled firmware components provided by Nordic Semiconductor that provide basic functionality and security features.

To see which version of the nRF54h20 SOC binaries to use with the given version of the nRF Connect SDK, see the :ref:`ABI compatibility page <https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/releases_and_maturity/abi_compatibility.html>`.

Updating the nRF54h20 SOC binaries
**********************************

> You can update the nRF54h20 SOC binaries in two ways.
> Both require using the nordic_top.suit envelope, which can be found inside the Nordic bundle .zip file.
> These two methods are:
> 
> * Updating it separately from the manufacturer application
> * Updating it along with the manufacturer application, by attaching the nordic_top.suit envelope to the manufacturer root manifest

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can update the nRF54h20 SoC binaries in two ways.
Both methods require using the :file:`nordic_top.suit` envelope, which can be found inside the nRF54h20 SOC binaries ZIP file.

The two methods for updating are the following:

* Updating separately from the manufacturer application.

* Updating along with the manufacturer application, by attachking the :file:`nordic_top.suit` envelope to the manufacturer root manifest, updating both the SoC binaries and the manufacturer's application simultaneously.

```

> Updating the Nordic components separately from the manufacturer application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Updating the nRF54h20 SOC binaries separately from the manufacturer application
```

===========================================================================

> When using this method two separate updates are performed.
> One is done with a manufacturer envelope with the update candidate.
> The second one is performed by providing the nordic_top.suit envelope found inside the Nordic Bundle to the device.
> The envelopes contain all the information allowing the device to differentiate which of the updates is performed.
> 
> The benefits of such an approach are:
> 
> * A smaller partition for storing the update candidate is required.
> * There is no need to integrate the process of downloading Nordic artitfacts into the manufacturer application building process.
> * There is no need of updating the version and sequence number of the manufacturer root manifest, if only the update of Nordic components is needed.
> 
> The drawbacks are:
> 
> * Two separate updates are required, which is not supported by all protocols.
> * The manufacturer envelope has no possibility to ensure the compatibility of the Nordic components with the manufacturer application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using this method, two separate updates are performed:

1. An update using a manufacturer envelope that contains the update candidate.
2. A second update, provided by the :file:`nordic_top.suit` envelope from the SoC binaries bundle.

Each envelope contains all the necessary information, allowing the device to differentiate between the two updates.

This approach was chosen for the following benefits:

* A smaller partition is required for storing the update candidate.
* There is no need to integrate the process of downloading Nordic artifacts into the manufacturer application build process.
* There is no need to update the version and sequence number of the manufacturer root manifest, if only SoC binaries updates are required.

However, there are the following limitations:

* Two separate updates are required, which is not supported by all protocols.
* The manufacturer envelope cannot ensure the compatibility of SoC binaries with the manufacturer application.
```

Attaching the nordic_top.suit envelope to the manufacturer root manifest
========================================================================

> When building an application, the build system can be configured to include the Nordic components inside the SUIT root envelope used for updates.
> 
> 
> The benefits of such an approach are:
> 
> * The whole update can be performed by pushing a single image to the device.
>   This might be required by som protocols.
> * The manufacturer root manifest can be used to manage dependencies between the manufacturer application and Nordic provided firmware components.
> 
> The drawbacks are:
> 
> * A larger partition for storing the update candidate is required, as both the manufacturer and Nordic provided firmware components must fit in it at the same time.
> * The manufacturer has to integrate the process of downloading Nordic artitfacts into the update package creation process.
> 
> The steps to build and perform an updete using this methof are:
> 
> 1. Unpack the Nordic bundle .zip file to a directory of your choice.
>    One of the extracted files will be the nordic_top.suit envelope.
> 
> 2. Build the application, pointing to the directory containing the nordic_top.suit envelope.
>    This is done by setting the `SUIT_ENVELOPE_NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY` sysbuild configuration option.
>    For example:
> 
>    ``west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --  -DSB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY="\"<NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY>\""``
> 
>    Replace `<NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY>` with the path to the directory containing the extracted nordic_top.suit file.
> 
> 3. Use the ``build/DFU/root.suit`` file generated by the build system to update both the manufacturer application and the Nordic Semiconductor firmware components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When building an application, you can configure the build system to include the Nordic components inside the SUIT root envelope used for updates.

This approach has the following benefits:

* The entire update can be performed by pushing a single image to the device, which may be required by some protocols.
* The manufacturer root manifest can be used to manage dependencies between the manufacturer application and the SoC binaries.

This approach has the following drawbacks:

* A larger partition is required to store the update candidate, as both the manufacturer and the SoC binaries must fit within it.
* The manufacturer must integrate the process of downloading Nordic artifacts into the update package creation process.

To build and perform an update using this method, do the following:

1. Unpack the SoC binaries ZIP file to a directory of your choice.  
   One of the extracted files will be the :file:`nordic_top.suit` envelope.

2. Build the application, pointing to the directory containing the :file:`nordic_top.suit` envelope.  
   To do this, set the ``SUIT_ENVELOPE_NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY`` sysbuild configuration option.  
   For example::

      west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -- -DSB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY="\"<NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY>\""

   Replace ``<NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY>`` with the path to the directory containing the extracted :file:`nordic_top.suit` file.

3. Use the :file:`build/DFU/root.suit` file generated by the build system to update both the manufacturer application and the SoC binaries.
```

> .. _ug_nrf54h20_suit_soc_binaries:

Reviewer 2: Please edit also the filename to match the shortcut

Author: Done
